welcome film seekers on this film
explained we are looking at higher power
it is about an ordinary man faced with
the task of saving the world from
destruction
at the beginning we see a scientist
named control he receives an encrypted
message
after decrypting we see only the lips of
someone on the monitor
who says that he knows about his work
that his transfiguration project
he also knows they turn their back on
him and says he has a plan
to finally see it come to life control
asks why he says
he knows for a fact that it's the only
thing powerful enough to stop what's
coming
he types asking him what the plan is and
the scene cuts to a show
where an astrophysicist named michael
swafford is interviewed to discuss about
his new book in the end there was light
the host asks him about light he
describes as the brightest and most
violent event in our known universe he
explains that it's a gamma-ray burst or
a grb
and michael believes that this gamma-ray
burst is the last thing that mankind
will see before we are blown out of
existence
then explains about the grb when a
high-mass star collapses
gravity crushes its core into a black
hole this black hole immediately begins
to devour the dying star around it at a
rate of 1 million earth mass per second
and that's far too much energy for the
black hole to consume at once
so a majority of that energy is blasted
back out into the universe in the form
of two narrow beams of intense radiation
and there is a dying star in our own
milky way galaxy that would cause grb
and earth is lying directly in the path
of the beam zone we see control
typing that they need a subject for the
project they scan the psychological
profiles of
everyone and find 943 possible
candidates they deploy their team
who collect their dna upon analysis all
the test fails except for the 726
subject that is joseph steadman we see
him consumed in sadness
watching video of his past with his
pregnant wife and daughter
enjoying at the beach and zoe used to
collect stones
he keeps one stone in a box we also see
him show zoe a lighthouse
which blinks in sequence of one four
three which stands for i love you we see
he missed those days and on the other
hand
control is watching him he knows
everything about him as he has watched
him for almost two years
they had set hidden cameras all over the
place and joseph works as watchmen in a
company
and visit psychiatrists to treat his
depression suicidal thoughts and anger
control issues they have kept watch on
his daughters too
zoe who is 25 now control tells us that
her mother died and he left his
daughters and she haven't forgiven him
for it
she is strong independent and
self-sufficient a direct contrast to her
younger sister
rhea she started substance abuse at 17
when she decided to follow in her
father's footsteps
and zoe's attempt at reaching out to her
have been met with resistance and lost
is the best way to describe her current
situation
she is also being used by her boyfriend
control has also deployed his men to
keep watch on all three of them
no matter where they are we see them
watching zoey with her boyfriend
and her boyfriend is the same guy who
was interviewed previously
as they kiss their books fall as he
picks it she tells him when a book falls
like that it's a fake page
she and her sister used to play this
game they used to drop the book on
purpose
and see what paige showed up then she
tells him to close his eyes
and place his finger randomly on the
page she says it's like a fortune you
can see how it applies to your life he
reads the sentence he placed on
it says during an infection apoptosis
that means death of a cell in a body
which is normal and occurs in an
organism's growth can serve a protective
function by killing off
virus-contaminated cells before they
spill with virus particles
this act of self-sacrifice hampers the
spread of infection and can save the
whole organism he says it's not
informative and she says to look past
the words
maybe you are apoptosis serving a
protective function this actually
applies to him in this movie you will
see why at the end
they leave and joseph here gets his
one-year chip he says when his wife was
sick
and after she died he prayed all the
time but there was no voice coming back
to me
there were no answers and he ended up
stranding his kids out at sea
he doesn't blame them for hating him he
hates himself too but he believes that
in their hearts they still want their
dad we see him watching zoe
takes the gift and goes to her asking we
could go to dinner maybe talk
shows her the gift he got for her she
tells him to try this with rhea she
needs it
he says he's trying he can't get through
doraea we could do it together
she doesn't care and as she is about to
leave he keeps his gift inside her
handbag
her boyfriend steps in telling he is
embarrassing her
so he gets angry and beats him zoe stops
him and they leave
later zoe calls reya but she doesn't
pick she gets worried
they used to talk every sunday for last
three months she is using drugs again
her boyfriend calms her telling she will
call later she gets angry on him
telling him that he doesn't even know
her and why are you here my dad just
punched you in the face
he calms her telling he's here because
he loves her and unlike her dad
he is not going anywhere meanwhile
joseph too tries to call reya but she
still doesn't receive the call
he stops his car and remembers his past
happy with his wife and daughters who
are grown up then his wife got cancer
she tells him to accept it and to be
strong for our girls and keep our family
together when i'm gone
he promises to do so but he has failed
he doesn't realize that there is someone
in the back seat of his car
who makes him unconscious and abduct him
where they implant some device in his
eyes
and leave him they are able to
communicate with him and wake him up by
playing some disturbing sound
control tells him when your wife died
you reached out for a god
but no one answered you wanted someone
to tell you what to do
he hears the speech he gave when he got
one year chip he finds it
he opens the case and finds a gun in it
he has a sharp pain in his eyes
control tells him they are transmitting
a data burst through a device we placed
on your optic nerve
it allows us to see what you see and you
see what we want you to
in this case his drug addict daughter
rhea making him realize the consequences
of his action
and how he influenced her revealing he
has been watching his family while
showing him his past
asks him why he gave up so easily it's
all broken
lost because you weren't strong enough
to hold it together broken promises
broken family smashed down by your
unstable hands
and i can help you find your strength to
put those pieces back together but first
you have to answer me
asking if he believes in him he says yes
asking what he wants
a woman walks in asking what happened
control tells him to lift that firearm
and shoot this woman in the head or i'm
gonna put a bullet on your daughter's
head
he's got five seconds to shoot her he
starts the countdown and he asks sorry
and shoots her just before the time runs
out
but finds there is no bullet he sees his
daughter as unharmed
control tells him that he is his higher
power now than that woman
says we have big plans for you and zaps
him with stunt gun which makes him
unconscious
when he wakes up he finds himself locked
in the trunk of a car
he calls 9-1-1 and tell them that he's
been kidnapped
but the receiver tells him that they
will kill his daughters if he tries to
contact the authority
he's frustrated control asks if he
understood
he says yes so they let him out they
kept a bag in his car
saying it has few items that he needs
for his next assignment
he asks to show him his daughters he
shows them he then gets in the car and
drives to where he says
he stops at a house control tells him to
take out the tablet from the bag and
asks if he recognizes this man he
recognizes him
and says it's charles margury president
of redlock it's where he works
he tells him to wear a mask we're moving
in he tells him to place the small black
box on the security panel
that women we saw before she hacks it
and unlock the doors
he gets in nervous of what he's doing
control tells him to go upstairs to the
third floor
charles is in the room at the end of the
hall and there is also a drone through
which he is watching
it can also see through buildings he
reaches the room he said
he then tells him to take the gun from
the bag threaten his life unless he
opens his safe
he hesitates so control shows him video
of someone pointing gun to his daughter
as she is asleep
he goes in wakes him up and take him to
his safe
he says as control says that is to take
the laptop from the safe
and authorize it then tells joseph to
put his finger on the scanner
it shows that the sequence is compatible
charles is shocked to see it
control tells him to take the small
metallic led device from his backpack
and place it on the laptop through which
sabi copies all the data from that
laptop which had all the works of
control
he says joseph to tell him to get on his
knees he says no
and starts arguing and is hit by charles
which causes them to lose connection to
his optic device
they soon establish the link back on the
other hand charles takes the gun
and joseph tells him that he works in
the facility he tells him that there is
a man
and he's in my head and he's talking to
me he checks his eyes and realizes that
control is behind all this
and tells him that he shut down the
project for a reason it is too dangerous
control tells joseph to walk forward or
he will kill you
and tell him he is right so he walks
forward slowly and tells he is right
it is too dangerous as he reaches the
window he gets shot by the drone
then tells him to take out the clippers
and cut charles thumb he then heads to
the research laboratory redlock
meanwhile sabi uses the drone to send
mini drones through the air vent
which latch on to where they had planned
he is told to wear the equalizing mask
from the bag
as he puts it on the mini drones release
a gas which suffocates and kills
everyone in the building
control explains it's called b19 a
classified
undetectable chemical weapon that
immediately bonds with air particles on
a subatomic level creating a controlled
seismic vacuum their deaths were
necessary
hers on the other hand can be spared
that's if you make it to the main
facility in four minutes
he goes there as fast as possible on the
way he is terrified to see everyone dead
and control tells him their lives mean
nothing in comparison to the bigger
picture
then tells to take off the mask gas has
dissipated
then tells to take the led device and
snap it in and uses the thumb of charles
which grants them access to the core
then tells him inside there is a throw
switch just switch it on
and your daughter lives as he gets
inside the door is locked he asks to
open the door
but gets no response control turns on
the machine which generates
dangerous electromagnetic waves he gets
affected by it and asks why he is doing
this to him
control tells him that's the way the
numbers line up it's in your dna
we see his body getting affected in the
subatomic level
he was chosen because he was the only
one who could survive this experiment
his body appears to absorb the
electromagnetic waves and the dna
completely changed it finally ends with
a huge blast and leave the whole
facility destroyed
this was the reason control and his team
was not allowed to conduct the
experiment
as he had proposed to use this to let a
man absorb the electromagnetic
waves and save the earth from grb but
because of the high risk
it was not approved but with the help of
some unknown person
he was able to conduct the program that
guy asks if it was successful
and control says yes because of this
blast the police and news reporters
gather there
and the news gets broadcasted zoe and
michael see the news and tv
and she breaks down and regrets not
talking to him properly
meanwhile joseph finds himself in his
own house
after some struggle he manages to come
out of the bag
then starts to yell at control he
explains there are four fundamental
forces
gravity electromagnetism the strong
nuclear force
and the weak nuclear force in that anger
his body starts releasing that energy in
him
he's confused what is happening to him
and breaks the wall
control tells him i have blessed you by
taking your greatest weakness
and turning it into a strength the anger
fear anxiety that chaos living inside
you that tore your life apart
i've harnessed it into a source of
infinite power and now i need you to use
that power
to keep your family together you were
always meant for more
but first you need to pass my tests
designed specifically to unlock your
greatest potential
he then tells him to get up and move to
next location his car is not there
so control thompson telling you think
your wife is watching you from heaven
there is no heaven and your wife is dead
it angers him again
and the electromagnetic waves released
through him starts the bike near him
control explaining him the angrier he
gets the more he unlock
cause and effect then tells him to get
on the bike on the way
control tells him once he gets there he
has to confront the man named nico
the man who took your daughter rhea
under his wing after you left
the same man got her hooked and kept her
that way meanwhile
zoe finally opens the box and finds a
stone which she gave to him when they
were at the beach
and gets emotional joseph reaches that
place and gets inside
the place was dark and had girls when he
finds nico
nico astray him and hits him making him
unconscious
when he wakes up he is tied up he asks
his name
as he recognizes he is reya's father he
purposefully shows him the sex tape of
raya that he made
seeing which makes him angry and the
power within him to come out
causes a blast and his body becomes
visible from outside for a while then
shrink and get back to normal and he
isn't able to unlock his full
power requiring more stress level to
unlock his full power
he is in the same place nico stabs him
but instead the knife gets super hot
then starts to shoot him but it only
causes holes in him so he runs off
joseph helps the girl to get out nico
heads to hit him
joseph shoots him but misses since he
doesn't use his power control shows him
a footage from that sex tape in his head
which again makes him angry and releases
so much energy that it kills and throws
off the car
he is confused how he is doing this but
control gets disappointed
telling him he failed to unlock his full
power once again
the police are on their way turn
yourself in they catch him and
interrogate
and asks redlock was annihilated and
this blast
you were in both of them are you
terrorist whom do you work
as control says him to say he tells them
that he works for higher power
he tells them there is a bomb at the
shipyard they leave to find the bomb
then control tells him if he finds the
bomb everybody lives
but if they find it before you i would
estimate 20 000
death in the effort to free himself he
ends up blowing the police station and
fall down
unluckily the transformation fails again
when a policeman reaches him
he sends him flying off in the air then
gets in a car and goes to the shipyard
the news is broadcasted that there is a
third blast at police station
the police is in hot pursuit of a man
whose name is joseph steadman
who was thought to have been actually
killed at the blast at redlock last
night
zoe and michael is shocked to see this
thinking it's impossible
meanwhile control gives him a clue the
bomb is in a shipping crate with the
police keep chasing him he gets
frustrated and his energy gets out
he destroys his car then flies towards
the shipyard and leave the police
confused what just happened and it's
also shown in live news describing as
some sort of light blast going on from
the vehicle
as he goes he destroys everything in the
path the news says it as a contrail of
energies
are slicing through the centers of towns
and homes then the light goes off
and they get kidnapped by control's men
meanwhile they police close the nearby
roads and search for the bomb he reaches
there and takes the containers and bomb
up in the air
his body was completely transformed and
appeared as electromagnetic energy
when it's in air the bomb blasts and
some chunk hits a plane
he manages to stop the plane from
crashing using his electromagnetic
powers then manages to pass the train
from the bridge that broke due to
containers
place the plane on a building then goes
to zoe's house but doesn't find her
there
control shows that he kidnapped his
daughter he uses his power to track from
where the live footage is coming
control knows he was able to track the
location so he tells him to get there
and save her
he tells him that you don't control me
anymore and gets there he puts her
daughter and michael in a bubble and
creates a blast
destroying the whole place and everyone
in there then meets his daughter
who hugs her asking what's going on what
happened to you
he tells her not to worry let's get your
sister we will go home now
we are now shown that the guy who helped
control to complete this program was
michael and being with zoe was all a
plan the gamma rays are getting close to
earth
the satellite detected and control tells
michael to shoot her
he shoots her and just surrenders
himself and he is instantly killed by
joseph
then seeing his daughter dying instead
of getting angry he tells her
he will make everything right he still
didn't unlock his full power
so control shows him the footage of his
another daughter raya
being shot and that makes him so angry
that he screams loudly with pain
that all that electromagnetic energy
around him starts to spread and cover
the whole earth
he gets so huge that he appears above
earth as a god
he is now able to see hear and know
every life and everything on earth
control tells him i know you can hear me
you can hear everything
see everything i've given you
omnipotence for you i've created a god
but joseph is so angry that he kills
control too
here we understand the meaning of that
fate of michael we saw in the library
the way a cell sacrifices itself to kill
a virus
hear michael control sabi sacrificed
himself to create a god who can save the
earth
gamma rays reach the earth and he
consumes it into himself
and saves the earth then revives both of
his daughters they reunite with their
father now being everywhere
and the movie ends hope you all liked
the movie and please consider
subscribing if you want to see more
explanations